NationBuilder is a radical and fun new way to run your country, state, city, neighborhood, corporation or non-profit completely democratically with thousands of people over the internet. 

This project started as "White House 2":http://whitehouse2.org/, but it's now expanding into "NationBuilder":http://nationbuilder.com/ so anyone can use it to run a democracy. 

My "blog has a bit more on the goals":http://www.jimgilliam.com/2009/05/making-the-future/.

NationBuilder is coded with Ruby on Rails 2.3.2, and released under the MIT License, the same as Ruby on Rails.

Jim Gilliam
"http://www.jimgilliam.com/":http://www.jimgilliam.com/
"http://twitter.com/jgilliam":http://twitter.com/jgilliam

----

h1. Installation instructions for Heroku

"Heroku":http://heroku.com/ is a unique and very easy to use hosting platform designed specifically for Ruby applications.  This is the easiest way to get started.

Create a Heroku account: "http://heroku.com/signup":http://heroku.com/signup

Install the Heroku gem:

<pre><code>sudo gem install heroku</code></pre>

Clone a copy of NationBuilder on your local machine.

<pre><code>git clone git://github.com/jgilliam/nationbuilder.git
cd nationbuilder
</code></pre>

Decide the URL you want. At first, your site will live at SITE_NAME.heroku.com.  So just decide what you want your SITE_NAME to be and replace that throughout these install instructions.   If you have your own domain you want to use, that comes soon.

<pre><code>heroku create SITE_NAME
git push heroku master
</code></pre>

You should get an error now from heroku "App crashed during startup, see the crashlog."  This just means we need to load the database.

<pre><code>heroku rake db:schema:load
</code></pre>

If you don't have your own domain yet, you can skip this step.  For your own domain, "create a CNAME in your DNS settings":http://docs.heroku.com/custom-domains that points to "proxy.heroku.com".  Once that's in, run this:

<pre><code>heroku addons:add custom_domains
heroku domains:add YOUR_DOMAIN_NAME
heroku config:add DOMAIN='YOUR_DOMAIN_NAME'
</code></pre>

If you AREN'T using your own domain, then just run this:

<pre><code>heroku config:add DOMAIN='SITE_NAME.heroku.com'</code></pre>

Now add a few addons. Memcached provides caching, and "Sendgrid":http://sendgrid.com/ is a third party email service that allows you to send emails from a cloud computing service like Heroku.

<pre><code>heroku addons:add memcached
heroku addons:add cron:daily
heroku addons:add sendgrid
</code></pre>

You need an Amazon S3 account to store graphics, "get that here":http://aws.amazon.com/s3/.

<pre><code>heroku config:add S3_ACCESS_KEY_ID='YOUR ACCESS KEY'
heroku config:add S3_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY='YOUR SECRET ACCESS KEY'
</code></pre>

NationBuilder makes extensive use of the DelayedJob plugin, which costs $15/mo from heroku.  You can still get up and running and play around without installing DelayedJob, but the rankings will never update and a few features will not work.  To install DelayedJob just do this:

<pre><code>heroku addons:add dj
heroku rake jobs:enqueue
</code></pre>

Now go to http://SITE_NAME.heroku.com

The first screen will ask you for a few basic things about your nation, and help you create an admin account.  Once you're through with that, you'll be ready to go.  There are a lot more settings under Settings > Nation Settings.  Colors, email templates, etc.

*To enable Facebook integration*:

Go to the Facebook developer application and create a new application.  Under "Connect" options, be sure to put the domain you are using.  Get the API key and secret key and add it to heroku like this:

<pre><code>heroku config:add FACEBOOK_API_KEY='YOUR API KEY'
heroku config:add FACEBOOK_SECRET_KEY='YOUR SECRET KEY'
heroku rake facebook:register_templates
</code></pre>

*To enable Twitter integration*, you need to "get your API keys here":http://twitter.com/oauth_clients.

<pre><code>heroku config:add TWITTER_KEY='YOUR API KEY'
heroku config:add TWITTER_SECRET_KEY='YOUR SECRET KEY'
</code></pre>

For Yahoo mail and Windows Live contact importing, you set the API keys under Settings > Nation Settings > API Keys

*To enable search*:

You need to set up a "Solr server":http://lucene.apache.org/solr/features.html.  There are details on this in the "Heroku docs":http://docs.heroku.com/full-text-indexing#solr.  Once you have the URL for your Solr server, you can add it to your app like this:

<pre><code>heroku config:add WEBSOLR_URL='http://urlofyoursolrserver/solr'
heroku restart
heroku rake solr:reindex
</code></pre>

Heroku is planning to have a better way of using Solr soon.